1. Basic Graphics Concepts

Q1: What is a point cloud?
A: A point cloud is a collection of data points in a 3D coordinate system, 
typically used to represent surfaces in computer graphics. It is commonly used in 3D scanning, LiDAR, and procedural terrain generation.

Q2: What is the difference between a pixel and a texel?
A:

Pixel (Picture Element): The smallest unit of a digital image or display.
Texel (Texture Element): The smallest unit of a texture image, which maps to a surface in a 3D object.


Q3: What are the different coordinate spaces in computer graphics?
A:

Object Space: Coordinates relative to the model’s local origin.
World Space: Coordinates relative to the global origin of the scene.
View Space (Camera Space): Coordinates relative to the camera.
Clip Space: Intermediate space before rasterization, where vertices are transformed by the projection matrix.
Screen Space: 2D space where final rendering takes place.


Q4: What is the difference between Rasterization and Ray Tracing?
A:

Rasterization: Converts 3D objects into 2D images by projecting triangles onto a screen. It is fast but limited in realism (shadows, reflections require tricks like shadow maps and screen-space reflections).
Ray Tracing: Simulates the physical behavior of light by casting rays from the camera and tracking their interactions with surfaces. It is more realistic but computationally expensive.


Q5: What is a Shader, and why is it important in graphics programming?
A: A shader is a program that runs on the GPU and determines how objects appear on the screen by processing vertices and fragments. It enables real-time rendering effects like lighting, shadows, and reflections.

Compute Shaders (GPGPU Programming)
Q11: What is a Compute Shader?
A: A Compute Shader is a program that runs on the GPU for non-graphics tasks such as physics simulation, AI processing, and procedural content generation.

Q12: How do Compute Shaders differ from Fragment Shaders?
A:

Fragment Shaders: Work within the rasterization pipeline, processing pixels.
Compute Shaders: Work outside the pipeline, handling arbitrary parallel computations.
Example of a Compute Shader in Unity:

#pragma kernel CSMain
RWTexture2D<float4> Result;
[numthreads(8, 8, 1)]
void CSMain(uint3 id : SV_DispatchThreadID)
{
    Result[id.xy] = float4(0, 1, 0, 1); // Green Color
}
Q13: What are numthreads() and SV_DispatchThreadID in Compute Shaders?
A:

numthreads(x, y, z): Defines the number of threads per workgroup.
SV_DispatchThreadID: Gives the global index of the current thread.
4. Ray Tracing in Unity HDRP
Q14: How does Ray Tracing work?
A: Ray Tracing simulates light by casting rays from the camera into the scene, computing reflections, refractions, and shadows using intersection tests with objects.

Q15: What are the main components of a Ray Tracing Shader?
A:

Ray Generation Shader: Launches rays into the scene.
Closest Hit Shader: Determines shading when a ray hits an object.
Miss Shader: Defines behavior when a ray misses all objects.
Q16: How do you enable Ray Tracing in Unity?
A:

Enable DXR (DirectX Raytracing) in Project Settings.
Use HDRP Asset with Ray Tracing enabled.
Assign Ray Tracing Materials to objects.
5. Shader Graph & Optimization Techniques
Q17: What is Shader Graph, and why is it useful?
A: Shader Graph is a visual tool in Unity for creating shaders without writing code. It allows artists and developers to build shaders using nodes instead of HLSL.

Q18: How do you optimize shaders for performance?
A:

Reduce texture lookups (tex2D() calls).
Use half instead of float for mobile optimization.
Minimize branching (if statements) in fragment shaders.
Use LOD (Level of Detail) to reduce GPU load.
Use batching and instancing to minimize draw calls.
Q19: How does Unity handle shader compilation for different platforms?
A:

Unity compiles HLSL into platform-specific shading languages (GLSL, Metal, SPIR-V).
#pragma only_renderers allows targeting specific platforms.
Shader Variants enable fallback options when features are unsupported.

